.TH HUMANS "1" "June 2017" "" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
humans \- Consult the humans.db database
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B humans \fR[-h] \fR[-v] \fIoperation\fR \fIargument\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION

.PP
Allows the easy query of the humans.db database. A empty database is included in the package, but the full database must be downloaded previously with \fBhumans-get-sources(1)\fR and \fBhumans-load(1)\fR, and moved to the correct place (See \fBFILES\fR section).

The supported flags are:
.TP
\fB-s\fR
Prints the short answer, it constraints the query to the fields nip, dni and name. Is only applicable to the operations \fBnip\fR, \fBname\fR, \fBdni\fR and \fBall\fR.
.TP
\fB-h\fR
Prints usage.

.PP
The valid operations (and its arguments) are:

.TP
\fBnip NIP\fR
Queries the database, retorning the information for the person with the given nip. It must be an exact match (no partial nips).
.TP
\fBname NAME\fR
Queries the database retorning the information for the person(s) with the given name. It supports partial searching (It will give all the information even if only a partial substring is given)
.TP
\fBdni DNI\fR
Queries the database retorning the information for the person with the given dni. It must be an exact match (no partial dnis).
.TP
\fBsubject SUBJECT\fR
Queries the database retorning the information for the person(s) with the given subjects. It supports partial searching (It will give all the information even if only a substring is given)
.TP
\fBbachelor BACHELOR\fR
Queries the database retorning the information for the person(s) with the given bachelor. It supports partial searching (It will give all the information even if only a substring is given)
.TP
\fBall\fR
Returns the full information of the database.
.TP
\fBquery QUERY\fR
Executes the given query over the database, the database is an SQLite3.

.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
0
if OK
.TP
1-255
if minor problems (e.g., the database file is inaccessible).
.SH FILES
.TP
\fI/usr/share/humans/humans.db\fR
This file consist in the database that will be queried.
.TP
\fI/usr/share/humans/schema.sql\fR
Schema of the previous database.
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Guillermo Robles
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report all bugs to guillerobles1995@gmail.com
